KOGITO-9455: Create the getting started guide to describe how to run … (#421)
kiegroup/kogito-docs: serverlessworkflow/modules/ROOT/pages/getting-started/create-your-first-workflow-service-with-kn-cli-and-vscode.adoc

* Start minikube. Depending on your environment, set `--driver` flag to `podman` or `docker`
[source,bash]
----
minikube start --cpus 4 --memory 8096 --addons registry --addons metrics-server --insecure-registry "10.0.0.0/24" --insecure-registry "localhost:5000"  --driver=docker
----
* (optional) Install https://k9scli.io/[k9scli.io] 
* Install the https://operatorhub.io/operator/sonataflow-operator[Sonataflow Operator]
* Install https://github.com/kiegroup/kie-tools/releases/tag/0.30.3[KN Workflow CLI] by downloading the correct distrubiton for your development environment and adding it to the PATH.

[[proc-creating-app-with-kn-cli]]
== Creating a workflow project with Visual Studio Code and KN CLI

Use the `create`` command with kn workflow to scaffold a new Sonata Flow project.

* Navigate to you development directory and create your project.
[source,bash]
----
kn workflow create -n my-sonataflow-project
----
* This will create a folder with name `my-sonataflow-project` and a sample workflow `wokrflow.sw.json`
[source,bash]
----
cd ./my-sonataflow-project
----
* Open the folder in Visual Studo Code and examine the created `worklow.sw.json` using our extension.

> Now we can run the project and execute your workflow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now you can run the project and execute the workflow.
```

[[proc-running-app-with-kn-cli]]

> == Running a workflow project with Visual Studio Code and KN CLI

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
== Running a Workflow project with Visual Studio Code and KN CLI
```

> Use the `run` command with kn workflow to build and run the Sonata Flow project in local development mode.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the `run` command with kn workflow to build and run the {product_name} project in local development mode.
```

* Run the project. This will start a `kogito-swf-devmode-nightly` image and map your local folder to this image.
[source,bash]
----
kn workflow run
----
* The Development UI wil be accesible at `localhost:8080/q/dev`
* You can now work on your project. Any changes will be picked up by the hot reload feature.

> * See xref:testing-and-troubleshooting/quarkus-dev-ui-extension/quarkus-dev-ui-workflow-instances.adoc[Workflow instances] guide on how to run workflows via Development UI.

Reviewer: Ins't this guide Quarkus specific?

Author: True, however the dev ui is accessible and when you use the CLI run command so I referenced this existing guide to avoid duplication, let me know if there is a better alternative to this. I can always remove this point and just point users to the URL.

> * Once you are done developing your project navigate to terminal that is running `kn workflow run` command and hit `Ctlr+C` to stop the development environment.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Once you are done developing your project navigate to the terminal running the `kn workflow run` command and hit `Ctlr+C` to stop the development environment.
```

To deploy the finished project to a local cluster, proceed to next section.

[[proc-deploying-app-with-kn-cli]]
== Deploying a workflow project with Visual Studio Code and KN CLI

> Use the `deploy` command with kn workflow to deploy the Sonata Flow project into your local cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the `deploy` command with kn workflow to deploy the {product_name} project into your local cluster.
```

* Deploy to minikube
[source,bash]
----
kn workflow deploy
----
* (Optional) Using k9scli you can examine your deployment.
* In a different bash instance, create a port mapping:
[source,bash]
----
minikube service hello --namespace default --url
----
* Use this URL to access your workflow instances using the Developer UI
** <RETURNED_URL>/q/dev/org.kie.kogito.kogito-quarkus-serverless-workflow-devui/workflowInstances
* To update the image run the `deploy` again, note that this may take some time.

* To stop the deployment, use the `undeploy` command:
[source,bash]
----
kn worklow undeploy
----
* You can validate your pod is terminating using k9s cli.

[[proc-testing-application]]
== Testing your workflow application

To test your workflow application, you can follow the instructions in the

> xref:testing-and-troubleshooting/basic-integration-tests-with-restassured.adoc[Testing your workflow application using REST Assured].

Reviewer: I think I was referring to this line the other day. I don't think we can link this guide here, but we should think of another way to test the workflow without using java. Maybe a black box approach using Postman? WDYT? We can open another JIRA and clear this gap. :)

Reviewer: cc @radtriste @MarianMacik keep in mind this guide is for the managed experience.

Author: Agreed, this is just a leftover I kept here to start this talks, I just create some curl commands and reference them here, no need to do a JIRA. Let me know what would be the preference

Reviewer: hmm I thought Postman had some testing features, like assertions based on request/response. I think it would be pretty useful to have a guide like that. wdyt? A few curls in this guide to check the deployment is doable too.

Author: on it!

== Additional resources

> * xref:testing-and-troubleshooting/quarkus-dev-ui-extension/quarkus-dev-ui-overview.adoc[Kogito Serverless Workflow Tools extension in Quarkus Dev UI]: View, manage, and start the workflow instances.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* xref:testing-and-troubleshooting/quarkus-dev-ui-extension/quarkus-dev-ui-overview.adoc[]: View, manage, and start the workflow instances.
```

> * xref:getting-started/getting-familiar-with-our-tooling.adoc[Getting familiar with {product_name} tooling]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* xref:getting-started/getting-familiar-with-our-tooling.adoc[]
```

> * xref:service-orchestration/orchestration-of-openapi-based-services.adoc[Orchestrating the OpenAPI services]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* xref:service-orchestration/orchestration-of-openapi-based-services.adoc[]
```

Leaving the brackets empty, Antora will pick the page title automatically.

* Visual Studio Code with https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=redhat.vscode-extension-serverless-workflow-editor[Red Hat Serverless Workflow Editor] is installed to edit your workflows.

.Preparing your environment 
* Install https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/[Docker] or https://podman.io/docs/installation[Podman].
* Install https://minikube.sigs.k8s.io/docs/start/[minikube].
* Install https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/[kubectl].
* Start minikube. Depending on your environment, set `--driver` flag to `podman` or `docker`
[source,bash]
----
minikube start --cpus 4 --memory 8096 --addons registry --addons metrics-server --insecure-registry "10.0.0.0/24" --insecure-registry "localhost:5000"  --driver=docker
----
* (optional) Install https://k9scli.io/[k9scli.io] 
* xref:cloud/operator/install-serverless-operator.adoc[]
* Install https://github.com/kiegroup/kie-tools/releases/tag/0.30.3[KN Workflow CLI] by downloading the correct distrubiton for your development environment and adding it to the PATH.

[[proc-creating-app-with-kn-cli]]
== Creating a workflow project with Visual Studio Code and KN CLI

> Use the `create` command with kn workflow to scaffold a new Sonata Flow project.

Author: Is there any variable for this? Just asking in case you have it handy

* Navigate to you development directory and create your project.
[source,bash]
----
kn workflow create -n my-sonataflow-project
----
* This will create a folder with name `my-sonataflow-project` and a sample workflow `workflow.sw.json`
[source,bash]
----
cd ./my-sonataflow-project
----
* Open the folder in Visual Studo Code and examine the created `workflow.sw.json` using our extension.

Now you can run the project and execute the workflow.

[[proc-running-app-with-kn-cli]]
== Running a Workflow project with Visual Studio Code and KN CLI

Use the `run` command with kn workflow to build and run the {product_name} project in local development mode.

> * Run the project. This will start a `kogito-swf-devmode-nightly` image and map your local folder to this image.

Author: Yes, thanks for reminding me

[source,bash]
----
kn workflow run
----
* The Development UI wil be accesible at `localhost:8080/q/dev`
* You can now work on your project. Any changes will be picked up by the hot reload feature.

> * See xref:testing-and-troubleshooting/quarkus-dev-ui-extension/quarkus-dev-ui-workflow-instances.adoc[Workflow instances] guide on how to run workflows via Development UI.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* See xref:testing-and-troubleshooting/quarkus-dev-ui-extension/quarkus-dev-ui-workflow-instances-page.adoc[Workflow instances] guide on how to run workflows via Development UI.
```

* Once you are done developing your project navigate to the terminal that is running the `kn workflow run` command and hit `Ctlr+C` to stop the development environment.

> To deploy the finished project to a local cluster, proceed to next section.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To deploy the finished project to a local cluster, proceed to the next section.
```

----
* Use this URL to access your workflow instances using the Developer UI
** <RETURNED_URL>/q/dev/org.kie.kogito.kogito-quarkus-serverless-workflow-devui/workflowInstances
* To update the image run the `deploy` again, note that this may take some time.

* To stop the deployment, use the `undeploy` command:
[source,bash]
----
kn worklow undeploy
----
* You can validate your pod is terminating using k9s cli.

[[proc-testing-application]]
== Testing your workflow application

To test your workflow application you can use any capable REST client out there. All that is needeed is the URL of your deployed worklow project.

.Prerequisites
* You have your workflow project deployed  using <<proc-deploying-app-with-kn-cli>> and you have the URL where it is deployed handy.

.Testing your workflow application
* To test your workflow project, access the Swagger UI on `<URL>/q/swagger-ui` to examine available endpoints.
* In order to execute the workflow once, run: 
[source,bash]
----
curl -X 'POST' \
  '<URL>/hello' \
  -H 'accept: */*' \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
  -d '{
  "workflowdata": {}
}'
----
* To examine executed instance you can use the GraphQL UI by navigating to

> `<URL>/q/graphl-ui` or calling additional REST queries.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
`<URL>/q/graphl-ui` or call additional REST queries.
```
Also, what additional REST queries you mean?

Author: I ll update,  wanted to give different options, I ll update
